>> Steve Kinney: Great, so we're able
to submit post requests to a regular
HTML form and change the color of an LED.
One of the things I don't love about
this is that we submit it, we look over,
we reload a page.
It's not a really great experience.
It's not the experience I come to
expect from the ten minutes that I have
been running a web server on a small
little commodity hobby board, right?
The thing that I keep kinda
harping on over and over again is,
the cool thing about programming hardware
with JavaScript is obviously programming
hardware in our favorite language.
But then also also being able to
still do all the things that we can
do in JavaScript,
which is being able to run servers,
being able to write client code and
build UIs.
All of the web APIs are available to us.
One project that I did at one point was
just basically just using the web audio
API and as I turn knobs and
press buttons on the hardware device,
I was able to make
the browser make sounds.
And I did a little bit with a thing called
web sockets which is every time the button
got pressed, we know that buttons have
an event and so then I submitted an event
over the web socket to the browser, which
then made sounds using the web audio API.
So you can effectively build your own
network connected musical devices,
all right?
So then once you start to wrap your head
around the fact that you have browser
technologies, server technologies,
and hardware, right?
There's this whole new spectrum
of things that you can do.
It's one of those things you start making
the LED blink, and that's very gratifying.
And then I guarantee you,
three weeks from now,
you'll be walking down the street like,
I could do this thing, right.
That wouldn't have been possible
with this kinda overlap of
these three different realms.
So one of the things that I did
early on was I set up socket.IO, and
socket.IO is a web socket library for
node servers.
And this is all that it took to
implement web sockets on the server.
Is I required socket.io and
I passed it my HTTP server.
And socket.io is one of those libraries
that has a server side component and
a client side component.
Cuz that's the two things you need between
for web sockets between the client and
the server.
One of the great things about JavaScript,
you can write on the server,
you can write on the client.
But the kind of tricky part with that
is sometimes you forget whether or
not you're writing on the client or
the server.
And sometimes some of the APIs
are slightly different.
So one day I put in the readme
was Just Enough Express,
in case you wanted to get an express
server running with your hardware.
And then Just Enough Socket.io,
which is the kind of methods
that we're going to use.
So in the server, when a new browser
connects, it'll be io.on('connection'.
And we'll get the connection
between that browser,
cuz there could be many people
connecting to my webserver.
This is a connection between one
browser and the single server.
So it's a socket right there and
say whenever some event.
And this is a string.
This could be client event,
it could be color changed hypothetically.
It could be sandwich.
It's just a string to identify what kind
of message we're sending over the web
socket, and then we'll get the actual
data that we can do stuff with.
So this is the payload.
So we can say color change, we should
probably tell the server what color.
That seems like relevant
data that we might want.
And then on the client, one of the things
when we patched it into the HTTP server,
is it made a client side
JavaScript library available.
All right so we have that as well.
And then we'll go ahead and
we will pull in,
this is what it basically looks like
to send something back to the server.
Cool, and if you want to send events
from the server out to all the connected
clients, you can do io.sockets,
which will be all of the browsers that
are currently connected send
a message to all of them.
Earlier you saw that you
have a single socket, so
you can basically talk to one browser,
you can talk to all the browsers.
We're gonna keep it simple and
basically talk to all the connected
browsers at this point.
You can get really fancy and
tricky with this hardware if you want,
we're not going to.
Yeah?
>> Speaker 2: Do you have to
set up multiple sockets for
multiple events or is it?
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah,
the socket connection is a given user
and your server.
With us, it's usually if we
aren't the user doing it.
It's got a lot of methods, so
if you need to do super granular stuff,
I would definitely recommend
the documentation.
But you can basically
either talk to a connection
with one browser that's connected to you,
so one user, all users.
You can actually do things where
you can put people in rooms and
a lot of crazy stuff.
But we're gonna assume that everyone,
cuz it's one of those things, for
the example of the music that I said
earlier, if I hit the button I want all
the browsers to play the sound,
right, not just a given one, right.
But if you did want to talk
a particular browser you could do that.
But we're gonna assume that we'll server
to everyone, everyone to the server.
We're gonna keep it simple for
our purposes.
All right, cool.
So we haven't set up on
the server automatically.
On the client, if you go into the example
code, I have under Rainbow LED,
I have one called socket-colors.
The one thing that I wanna look for in
there is, cuz I don't have it memorized,
is this is where it basically patches
the server with the client side code.
So I'm gonna take this script tag.
This is also in
the socket.io documentation,
it's just one of those
things in all of the years,
this relatively simple URL is not
something that I can clearly remember.
So I'll move that into
the public index.html
that we've been working
with with the form.
I'll just add that before the script tag,
cuz it's gonna make a global io variable.
So we'll just put that
before the script tag.
All right, cool.
And now we're gonna kind of
write some Bespoke code in here.
So I showed you in the documentation where
we could see how a client can talk to
the server, so
let's go take a look at that again.
So we get socket admit and some data.
So the data will be what color we want.
So first thing we do is go ahead and
see if I've got things right.
So what I want to do is I wanna listen for
change event on that color
input that I made before.
So let's go ahead and look.
We know that it's gonna ID a color picker.
It's gonna write some Vanilla JavaScript,
const colorPicker,
>> Steve Kinney: = document.getElementById
('color-picker').
Cool, then we'll say
colorPicker.addEventListerner('change',
>> Steve Kinney: And the other thing we
need is the,
>> Steve Kinney: So
our socket connection to the server.
>> Steve Kinney: socket.emit, we'll
call the, again, this can be anything.
It could be sandwich if you wanted to.
color changed.
>> Steve Kinney: And
we'll say that the color is,
>> Steve Kinney: colorPicker.value.
>> Steve Kinney: All right, cool.
So there it will just
basically tell the server.
Whenever a user changes the color,
we'll send that immediately to the server.
Just in case I've made a boo-boo and
I need to debug,
we know that it does take 30,
40 seconds to deploy code to our tessel,
so I'm going to be a little defensive and
just say log it to the console as well.
>> Steve Kinney: So
that if I have made some terrible mistake,
or if I'm getting a different value than
I think, or if I have the wrong thing.
I at least have some information
as I'm debugging rather than, no,
it doesn't work.
Why doesn't it work?
Let me then put the console log into play.
And I'm just going to- You
can call me pessimistic,
but,
>> Steve Kinney: Just being real.
So now we just need to
establish that connection.
So when the browser fires up and
does the client side code,
it's gonna say hey server, I'm gonna
make a socket connection with you.
And so the server needs to
know how to deal with that.
So when somebody,
cuz it's an onconnection,
>> Steve Kinney: Socket.
>> Steve Kinney: We'll say, when
the socket sends us a color change event,
>> Steve Kinney: Take that data.
>> Steve Kinney: We will console.log the
data, in case things don't go as planned.
>> Steve Kinney: And
we'll say led.color and
we'll say data.color.
So now, every time that
color input changes, right,
we'll send a socket event to the server
and tell it to change the LED.
So no more of that post response back and
forth.
We'll actually be able to keep moving and
changing the LED.
And we'll see it work.
So I'm just gonna go ahead and
deploy that code.
>> Steve Kinney: I'll still be able to
hit submit too as well cuz I didn't take
that functionality out but it's fine.
So I'm gonna deploy this code.
So, I will show,
right before we kind of cut,
I had an issue where it wasn't working.
I will show you that at this point it
is changing colors as I move across
the color wheel.
The issue, and
I'll show you in the code in one second,
was basically on one end
I call the event color
changed like past tense and the other one
I called it color change present tense.
So that handshake between the client and
the server was wrong so
that was the issue for those things.
But first, here with me as I move
the cursor around the color wheel
which I will show you on the client.
So bascially while you saw
the color change on the LED,
this is what I was doing on the client.
Which was just grabbing
this moving it along.
Each one of those sends a socket
event to the server, which has
access to the LED and is instantaneously
changing the color of the LED.
This, not unlike the button from
earlier is also incredibly gratifying.
But again, it's that overlap,
the client side code that we wrote,
server side code that we wrote, and
then hardware code that we wrote.
We can kind of control all
three of these things.